README.md, before:

# OpenWrt Firmware Selector

A simple OpenWrt firmware selector using autocompletion. Uses plain
HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Checkout the [Demo](https://mwarning.github.io/openwrt-firmware-selector/www/).

This is a Fork/Mirror of the official [OpenWrt](https://gitlab.com/openwrt/web/firmware-selector-openwrt-org) version, but without OpenWrt specific changes like the feedback link and continuous integration scripts.

![image](misc/screenshot.png)


## Quick Run

* Download the sources and change the working directory
* Start webserver (e.g. `python3 -m http.server`)
* Go to `http://localhost:8000/www/` in your web browser

Configure with [config.js](www/config.js).

## Attended Sysupgrade Support

This firmware selector can speak to a [ASU server](https://github.com/aparcar/asu) to build custom images. To enable the feature, the `asu_url` option in the config.js needs to be set.

## Installation

Place the `www/` folder somewhere web accessible. Then use the `collect.py` script to update `www/config.json` and write all device data into `www/data/`:

```
./misc/collect.py --image-url 'https://downloads.openwrt.org/{base}/{target}' https://downloads.openwrt.org  www/
```
or for local accessible OpenWrt builds:

```
./misc/collect.py --image-url 'https://downloads.openwrt.org/{base}/{target}' ~/openwrt/bin  www/
```

This should do it!

Settings `image_url` and `info_url` can also be passed to `misc/collect.py` to be included in the version specific `overview.json` files:

* `--image-url`: Download link template for the image files.
* `--info-url`: Link template that points to additional information.

Variables:

* `{version}`: Version in the profiles.json files. E.g. `19.07.4` or `SNAPSHOT`.
* `{id}`: Device identifier. E.g. `tplink_archer-c7-v2`
* `{target}`: Main- and sub target, E.g. `ath79/generic`.
* `{base}`: Distinct path to the targets directory. E.g. `releases/18.06.8/targets/`  
  Handled by `misc/collect.py` only!

### Generate OpenWrt JSON

The collect.py script merges data from `profile.json` files generated by OpenWrt. To enable generation, go to the build settings (`make menuconfig`):
`Global build settings  ---> [*] Create JSON info files per build image`.

If the option is not available (OpenWrt 18.06 or 19.07.3), apply commit [openwrt/openwrt@881ed09](https://github.com/openwrt/openwrt/commit/881ed09ee6e23f6c224184bb7493253c4624fb9f).

## Similar Projects

- [Gluon Firmware Selector](https://github.com/freifunk-darmstadt/gluon-firmware-selector): For [Gluon](https://github.com/freifunk-gluon/) images, now with pictures.
- [Freifunk Hennef Firmware Downloader](https://github.com/Freifunk-Hennef/ffhef-fw-dl): Similar to the project above, but PHP based.
- [LibreMesh Chef](https://github.com/libremesh/chef/): Allows to select configurations.
- [GSoC Firmware Selector](https://github.com/sudhanshu16/openwrt-firmware-selector/): Result of the GSoC
- [FFB Firmware Selector](https://github.com/freifunk-bielefeld/firmware-selector): Build for Freifunk Bielefeld

Commit message:

README.md: add some notes on Falter-Firmware-Selector

README.md, after:

# Falter Firmware Selector

This repo holds the firmware selector for the Freifunk Berlin Firmware. Its pretty much the same as the OpenWrt firmware selector from mwarning42, except for some minor cosmetic adjustments to get a Freifunk look and feel.

## Fetch Router Profiles with get_profiles_from.py

```
Usage:
        ./get_profiles_from [URL]

Please give an URL to the buildbot-dir.
Example:
        ./get_profiles_from http://buildbot.berlin.freifunk.net/buildbot/unstable/2020-12-19/
```
The script fetches alls the router data from the given link on the buildbot. Then you should mention those profiles in the `config.js` of the Selector by youself. That way, we have control over the version names and can "misuse" the version-name to distinguish between the firmware-types.


# OpenWrt Firmware Selector – Original README.md

A simple OpenWrt firmware selector using autocompletion. Uses plain
HTML/CSS/JavaScript. Checkout the [Demo](https://mwarning.github.io/openwrt-firmware-selector/www/).

This is a Fork/Mirror of the official [OpenWrt](https://gitlab.com/openwrt/web/firmware-selector-openwrt-org) version, but without OpenWrt specific changes like the feedback link and continuous integration scripts.

![image](misc/screenshot.png)


## Quick Run

* Download the sources and change the working directory
* Start webserver (e.g. `python3 -m http.server`)
* Go to `http://localhost:8000/www/` in your web browser

Configure with [config.js](www/config.js).

## Attended Sysupgrade Support

This firmware selector can speak to a [ASU server](https://github.com/aparcar/asu) to build custom images. To enable the feature, the `asu_url` option in the config.js needs to be set.

## Installation

Place the `www/` folder somewhere web accessible. Then use the `collect.py` script to update `www/config.json` and write all device data into `www/data/`:

```
./misc/collect.py --image-url 'https://downloads.openwrt.org/{base}/{target}' https://downloads.openwrt.org  www/
```
or for local accessible OpenWrt builds:

```
./misc/collect.py --image-url 'https://downloads.openwrt.org/{base}/{target}' ~/openwrt/bin  www/
```

This should do it!

Settings `image_url` and `info_url` can also be passed to `misc/collect.py` to be included in the version specific `overview.json` files:

* `--image-url`: Download link template for the image files.
* `--info-url`: Link template that points to additional information.

Variables:

* `{version}`: Version in the profiles.json files. E.g. `19.07.4` or `SNAPSHOT`.
* `{id}`: Device identifier. E.g. `tplink_archer-c7-v2`
* `{target}`: Main- and sub target, E.g. `ath79/generic`.
* `{base}`: Distinct path to the targets directory. E.g. `releases/18.06.8/targets/`  
  Handled by `misc/collect.py` only!

### Generate OpenWrt JSON

The collect.py script merges data from `profile.json` files generated by OpenWrt. To enable generation, go to the build settings (`make menuconfig`):
`Global build settings  ---> [*] Create JSON info files per build image`.

If the option is not available (OpenWrt 18.06 or 19.07.3), apply commit [openwrt/openwrt@881ed09](https://github.com/openwrt/openwrt/commit/881ed09ee6e23f6c224184bb7493253c4624fb9f).

## Similar Projects

- [Gluon Firmware Selector](https://github.com/freifunk-darmstadt/gluon-firmware-selector): For [Gluon](https://github.com/freifunk-gluon/) images, now with pictures.
- [Freifunk Hennef Firmware Downloader](https://github.com/Freifunk-Hennef/ffhef-fw-dl): Similar to the project above, but PHP based.
- [LibreMesh Chef](https://github.com/libremesh/chef/): Allows to select configurations.
- [GSoC Firmware Selector](https://github.com/sudhanshu16/openwrt-firmware-selector/): Result of the GSoC
- [FFB Firmware Selector](https://github.com/freifunk-bielefeld/firmware-selector): Build for Freifunk Bielefeld
